# ShiftGrid-Trading-Robot

The most common mistake many traders and analysts make is that they think they can determine whether the price is high or low at any given moment. The fact is that the financial market has long been a collection of random processes, reliable forecasting of which is even theoretically impossible. All the techniques of so-called technical analysis based on indicators, that is, formulas designed to calculate the future state of the market based on known data from its past conditions, no longer work. Such basic concepts as "overbought" and "oversold" have lost their economic meaning, as the market has become global, and the volume of its liquidity can be considered almost infinite.


Based on the above, the process of extracting profits from fluctuations in market quotations is not reduced to attempts to "anticipate" future prices based on "historical patterns", but to manage capital in strict accordance with the chosen scheme. There are only two such schemes: DCA (that is, averaging the dollar value of an asset) and Grid (trading on a grid of price levels).


Dollar Cost Averaging (DCA) involves buying equal amounts of an asset at regular intervals, for example, on payday we buy 0.01 BTC. When the asset price reaches the desired excess over the average purchase price (for example, 5%), we sell the entire asset, take the profit and start a new purchase cycle. This approach is good for long-term investments (over the horizon of a year or more) if the market clearly shows a tendency for the asset to grow over long time intervals (bitcoin is just such a case). It is not difficult to understand that using DCA for intraday trading is unlikely to be a good idea: the short-term trend is often downward, and achieving profit-taking is not at all guaranteed. This is not a problem if our stock of dollars is inexhaustible, but unfortunately, in the vast majority of cases, the retail trader is very limited in this resource. For this reason, we choose a Grid strategy as the general investment scheme for our robot: trading on a grid of price levels.


Grid trading (Grid strategy) is implemented by placing a certain number of buy and sell orders for an asset when the price reaches certain levels. The purchase, as in the DCA strategy, is made in portions (lots) of a fixed volume. Unlike the DCA strategy, each buy order corresponds to an individual "take profit" sell order. Thus, when the price decreases, we gradually buy an asset in lots, and when the price starts to rise, we sell it in the same lots, making a profit at the same time. We do not need to try to guess in which direction the price will move at the next moment in time: we always have two orders ready - to buy and to sell. Of course, the profit from each completed transaction in the volume of the lot will be N times less than if we were betting on the entire size of our deposit, where N is the number of lots into which we divide the deposit. But the risk of incurring a loss decreases by about the same amount if we guessed the price direction incorrectly.


Most modern exchanges include the option to program a Grid-robot. However, its functionality is limited: such a robot trades in a certain price range of an asset, and when the price goes beyond this range, it stops working. Therefore, the user is forced to constantly monitor the work of his bot and often make further financial decisions when the price of an asset moves into a new range. This is not very similar to full automation of the trading process.


The solution to the problem of limiting the Grid to a narrow range is based on the essentially probabilistic nature of market behavior. Therefore, if the price drops to the last level of the grid, that is, when the entire deposit is spent on the purchase of an asset, we can sell some small part of the asset at the current price and place a number of buy orders below the current price. Since the probabilities of continuing to lower the price and price reversal to growth at any given time are virtually equal, the probabilities of making a loss from selling at a low price and making a profit from continuing to buy at an even lower price are also approximately equal. Since we are not selling the entire asset at a "low" price, but only a part (for example, 10%), the loss in case of an immediate price reversal to growth will be limited. In return, we get the opportunity not to interrupt the process of extracting profits from volatile movements, free ourselves from the need to make decisions when the range boundaries are reached, and generally get rid of any "manual" control interventions in the trading process. In the case of a continued increase in the asset price, everything happens completely symmetrically, with the only difference being that growth leads to an absolute profit relative to the initial deposit, respectively, when we reach the last level of the grid, we have the right to buy more assets (for example, 50% of the current deposit), and make a "new start" with increased initial capital.


Another significant drawback of bots included in the functionality of exchanges is the lack of the ability to "isolate" the profit received in each deal from the rest of the funds in the trading account. The user is forced to constantly make complex calculations to find out how much he has earned over a certain period of time. Therefore, we have provided the ability to automatically withdraw the profit received as a result of each completed deal to a separate account, where the profit will accumulate. Thus, the results of the robot's work are before your eyes, and you can use the earned funds at your discretion at any time.


The robot has a sufficient number of user-configurable parameters, which allows you to design the most intricate and exclusive strategy options within a wide range of risk/return ratio. API-interfaces for trading on the most popular crypto exchanges have been implemented.

